# Part One

Chapter one (of the book entitled “Knowledge Graphs,” by Kejriwal et al.) introduces the concept with the same name as the title. Interestingly, knowledge graphs are not new; the idea has been around since at least 1735. In a town named Prussia, people wondered whether it was possible to walk around the town and only cross each of the seven bridges only one time. Leonhard Euler, by drawing a diagram of the bridges, proved that it is possible to walk trough the town and only cross each of the seven bridges only one time. Thereafter, the authors continue to discuss the idea of representing knowledge as graphs (graphical depictions of the information). Against that background, there are three ideas to discuss: 1. representing knowledge as graphs, 2. Building knowledge graphs is a combination of art and science (see chapter 2), and 3. knowledge graphs have to be fine tuned to be robust enough to extract valuable information. I will discuss each of these points in turn.

(1)	As far as representing knowledge as graphs, the knowledge graph is a graphical (diagram—drawing) of the main ideas in the base(s) of information, with lines connecting the nodes. The idea, behind the concept, and the practice will probably be instantly recognizable by someone who “mind mapped,” diagramed, business cases in school. Even more, the practice of knowledge graphs will be easily grasped by an enterprising and motivated law student (or attorney) who has diagramed lengthy and convoluted legal cases. 

(2) Related to making diagrams, building knowledge graphs is a combination of a science and an art. Even though this statement is not explicitly stated in the book, there is mention that “assigning blank node identifiers is something that is entirely dependent on the person modeling and publishing the RDF data.” (page 50)

(3) As far as knowledge graphs requiring human thinking and experience (the art part of it), knowledge graphs have to be fine tuned to be robust and useful. On page 50 of the book, it is stated that “there is usually no clear mathematical formula for capturing the phenomenon of semantic correspondence.” In other words, knowledge graphs have to be adjusted in order to capture useful and contextually relevant information. This means that a useful knowledge graph should retrieve information that is contextually relevant to the situation at hand.

In conclusion knowledge graphs need to be robust and useful (extract contextually relevant and needed information). Moreover, knowledge graphs depict relationships between the information, for example Joe Smith is the husband of Mary Smith. Again, although software is available for the modeling of the graphs, human experience and intelligence is required to fine tune the knowledge graphs and to interpret the same. 

**Reference**

* Lane, Hobson and Maria Dyshel. 2025. Natural Language Processing in Action (second edition). Shelter Island, NY: Manning. [ISBN-13: 978-1617299445] Chapter 10, Large language models in the real world, pages 410–469. Available on Course Reserves, and Chapter 11, Information extraction and knowledge graphs, pages 470–512. Available on Course Reserves.
